the Panic of 2023 haven't you heard well
in today's video I'm going to explain
why the banks are freaking out you have
to understand what's going on here it's
fundamental this isn't the same issue
from 2023 it has actually been
compounded and made worse there's
something else here that the Federal
Reserve is going to have to do something
drastic something we haven't seen in
years how does that sound let's get into
it right away I want to know
but I've been talking about this for
months more than this there are deep
fundamental problems that won't be
resolved without The Inferno of
inflation and that is what needs to be
understood you have a crisis and you
deal with it with what that's right
inflation every single time every time
they go ahead to the printing press and
they put it on full blast they run it
247 and of course that means prices of
everything will go up specifically risk
assets are the on set to go berserk but
not until there's a crisis not until the
Federal Reserve has an excuse and in
today's video I'm going to show you what
that excuse is let me get into it you
could see that there's an issue going on
with Wall Street not being sure that it
can handle all of wall Street's bonds
what am I discussing well let me just
break down the basics Number One banks
are actively panicking about rates being
too high that's fundamental you can see
this interest rates go up now suddenly
they're saying uhoh we got to be able to
get more in so that we can give that out
because just like any stock anything
else the banks have investors in a sense
depositors that's their investor and if
they don't treat them well they're going
to go to another institution that's
giving them more so that's part of it
okay here we have stock prices have
largely ignored the bond market so the
bond Market's sending all these signals
that there's a concern but the stock
market's kind of just saying me I'll
shrug it off another bank crisis would
activate the fed's QE program QE is
quantitative easing that's printing
money whereas we have currently
quantitative tightening or c
and when you do that you're draining
liquidity from the system and when that
happens you get problems just like
you're seeing with droughts in some
areas where you can't have the boats
going through because there's not enough
water well then what happens well you
have a problem getting stuff to where it
needs to be that's currency current and
without that it's simply going to have
issues along the way uh-oh we can't get
the products there we can't get those
products there and we have some upset
people along the way so think about it
in that respect let's break this down
investors long Shrugged off us deficits
but a torrent of treasuries is testing
the bond market and so ultimately what's
going on is that the let me break it
down for you okay so the government
needs to spend money and how does it do
that well it basically says okay we're
going to spend this cash and we will
issue a bond we're going to issue that
Bond and that means an investor will
come in and buy that Bond and we're
going to give them a percentage we'll
give them 2% we'll give them 5% whatever
the case is and so that allows us to
spend money and as long as investors are
willing to buy that debt we can go into
as much debt as we want and the US has
been doing this for decades and decades
and decades and that's fine as long as
they can give them a rate of return and
as long as there's enough investors
coming through that's fine there's just
one concern though well when you have a
government that goes into way too much
debt and then investors are a little bit
more cautious and maybe they're going
this direction and that direction and
suddenly the debt piles up well then you
have one alternative one alternative who
could come to the rescue can you guess
what do you think who would come to the
rescue in that if there's not invest
whether it's domestic investors foreign
investors institutions hedge funds and
so on who then come to the rescue well
let's talk about it okay so in here
there are a few quotes that I just
wanted to show you and I think it's
important just to understand that uh as
they say stocks are valued in part based
on how attractive their potential
returns are relative to those on
treasuries meaning all else being equal
more bonds at higher yields means lower
stock prices few on Wall Street expect
the torrent to slow soon and now we've
got this big concern this problem that's
going on where we have the investors out
there their whole business was running
on super low interest rates you have
investors the banks the hedge funds and
everything low interest rates this is
the this is the new the you know the the
new world always going to be low
interest rates
forever inflation came through oh
inflation's transitory you know we're
going to stay down here but that didn't
happen Federal Reserve increased
interest rates again and again and again
again they did so many times each and
every single time the market believed no
that was it that was done they're not
going to do it everybody all the way
through the YouTubers the you know the
Articles everybody they all said the
same thing that you don't have to worry
because the fact remains that the
Federal Reserve is not going to increase
interest rates they won't do it anymore
they're going to bring it down look
let's be clear we are well into this
well over a year of inre interest rate
increases so let's get serious let's be
honest about it there's another Factor
here though and it goes a little deeper
treasury's debt delu is finally
straining us funding markets levels will
be a challenge for liquidity pinched
Banks so as I alluded to a moment ago
you've got these Banks and they have
customers those customers give them the
deposits those deposits are then like
they're able to use that this fractional
Reserve Banking and so they can take
this money and then they can loan out
many multiples worth but they're
concerned because they always need that
liquidity there if even a small
percentage of people start to pull their
money out they got a big problem so so
what's their concern well they made a
lot of Investments when interest rates
were super low they were buying perhaps
30-year bonds they were buying all these
things that were really long dated but
now the value of them has come down a
lot so let's just say in some cases it
was like 50% of their value so did they
sell and take a 50% loss or do they hold
on to that and hope at some point it's
going to be worth more well depends on
the company and depends on what they're
doing but now they don't have liquidity
if they're going to hold on to it
there's no liquidity there but the
depositor might say I want my money back
and so this is what happened with svb
and it's been magnified now because
interest rates are even higher than they
were in March at the same time you've
got um you know basically the rate of
return people want more they're
demanding much more than they were in
March at the same time you've got more
debt than ever before and so all of
these things combined to make it worse
than it was back in March 2023 where you
had Banks like svb failing I hope I made
my point clear if I have if you appre
appreciate this message hit that Thumbs
Up Button you are supporting me when you
do I want to get into this more there's
even ralio talking about the concern the
obvious concern at this given time the
treasury's barrage of Bill issuance is
starting to cause some cracks to here in
the US dollar funding space and that
brings us into the reverse repos it's
confusing it's a lot I know just all you
need to know for this time being for the
purposes of this video it's a way for
the Federal Reserve to add liquidity
into the system when they're doing
quantitative tightening that's it that's
all you got to know for here okay so
that's their way of kind of balancing it
out but what has happened here is that
they believe the market is stable enough
to do less and less and less of these
repos and so that's been happening it's
going on with the banks between the
Federal Reserve so you have you know the
primary dealers they're called like JP
Morgan and so on and then you have the
Federal Reserve and they basically just
Shuffle this stuff around it's like an
overnight investment and so they can go
in to the market get a small rate of
return that's the you know the banks
they do this this you know differential
that's their profit in the way so the
the banks are able to make money off of
this but that's now coming down it's
come down quite a bit from where it was
at its peak and now I'm trying to not
make it too complicated the point is
that they are actively right here and
now going into a world in which that
liquidity is seriously being drained out
of the system so they are trying their
best the banks are trying their best to
keep reserves in this system because
they know that you know the customers
are going to be active they're going to
be they're concerned they're still
worried about what's going on before but
at the same time they want more rate of
return they're going to money market
funds they're going elsewhere and that
presents itself with an issue now still
today as of right now the reserve
requirements for these Banks what do you
think it is like 10% is it 12% you know
how much they have to keep in at the you
know the Federal Reserve to
you know make sure everything's good
what what do you think what do you think
that that rate is currently any guess
how about zero so since 20120 the
Federal Reserve said you got to keep
zero in you don't need to have a reserve
right now because things are tough they
haven't changed yet but still they are
worried because they don't want their
Bank to go under so this is the big
concern this can't be resolved right now
you still got zero reserves you've got
liquidity being drained like crazy and
you've got the customer saying I want
more return inflation is high and so I
want a return that's a big problem that
is a big problem and Ray alio said that
in there okay it is expensive to
maintain deposits but Banks appear
willing to pay the price Banks likely
want an extra buffer of cash due to the
rapid deposit outflows and to manage
shareholder perception about their
overall liquidity so that's going on
right now I need to make that clear for
you all right quote we are uncertain of
the macro conditions that will prevail
when the overnight reverse repos deplete
to zero a higher for longer environment
and continued bank deposit outflows
could contribute to Banks remaining
liquidity strain towards the end of 2024
with which risks funding pressure this
all ties together do you see what I just
did there it might have taken me 10
minutes but we did so okay so the
explanation of that the simple LAN dem's
understanding is there's liquidity being
taken out so you putp money in imagine
it's like an ocean like this thing's
just flooding this thing is filling it's
going crazy it's going wild and then
someday you have and by the way
everybody's partying one day somebody
pulls the plug on the drain and that
bathtub starts swirling down swirling
down and at this point in time you
realize who's swimming naked
that's going on right now that's what's
happening at the banks I have seen other
YouTubers and what they're talking about
and my goodness this needs a video every
day because we need to understand the
intricacies of what's Happening not the
nonsense not the BS not the stuff about
who cares about this and that we got to
know what's happening in this no more
renting okay look what's going on with
the debt real quick you can see it for
yourself the quantity we have to sell is
a lot and the buyers are less inclined
to buy the debt that's
Rayo they're less like this we talking
about the
us there are deep concerns about
financing we're looking at given the
inconceivable gaps between Washington's
Waring parties big problems go real deep
that delinquency expectations unable to
make minimum Deb payment over the next 3
months of course when you increase
interest rates these are a concern it's
not just for the country as a whole or
corporations it's people too all over
the place this is now the greatest
treasury Bearer Market of all time 2020
until today you could see that can you
believe that we are in that time right
now so this is the concern and this is
all going on a broaded full circle I
hope you appreciate I know it's really
complicated but if we don't understand
this we're not going to understand the
reason why this is chaotic and you will
hear from the other YouTubers who are
telling you that this is a deflationary
event
that everything comes crashing down yeah
the bond market big problem you see that
right now that's what I'm talking about
I wrote it in my book I put it in black
and white January 2012 how many others
put that kind of stuff in black and
white you increase interest rates you
create problems that's
happening so you the individual there
are things that you can do and we'll
talk about that okay you have to take
action you can't just sit here and say
oh that was a good video okay on to the
next one you have to take action very
important okay and so this is the
problem yeah oh it's deflationary as if
that's where it ends come on
people come on anybody who says that
anytime you see that you should start to
say that's I've had enough of that we
got to look at where the money is going
to go and it is very clear that as soon
as we have a crisis the Federal Reserve
and the government itself are going to
react and the Federal Reserve might do
it through a backd door Channel or they
might just overtly go through and guess
what if inflation's not down and they're
already beginning the next round of QE
what do you think's going to happen to
the prices what do you think's going to
happen to the value of your dollar it's
going to burn an inferno of inflation I
can't tell you anymore
please you got to get your stuff
together and I have done this I have
made it simple for everybody this is
it's my it's my I'm pleading with people
only 500 people have gone through
Compass at this point you got to get
your finances together I made it free
there's no email there's no dollar I
don't didn't charge you 99 Cents there's
no uh you know pay wall behind there in
any regard you don't have to be a member
there's no email nothing you go to my
website the money gps.com you click on
Compass you go through you've got to
organize your stuff please I don't know
how to I'm begging people to do this I
made it free
comment of the day my question is this
when will we hit bottom in the
commercial real estate market you've got
to be very clear on this thing about
yeah okay look at 2008 crisis 2009 stock
market bottoms out it starts to come
back up housing didn't didn't happen so
commercial real estate you know in the
case of residential real estate in the
previous cycle it took like three years
to kind of bottom out and start coming
up two to three years so the same thing
could be expected again real estate
moves a lot more slowly and you know
maybe commercial real estate could be
longer so that's what I would say that's
what I replied in this case here I want
to thank you for your comment really
really quickly look for the beginning
this what can I do all right look for
the beginning of an outright or backdoor
QE this means that risk assets become a
buy and that's crazy uh you know I'm not
telling people to buy but what I'm
saying is you know you devalue the
currency stuff the the worst stuff
becomes higher in price liquidity is
what determines markets not Revenue not
uh you know how many stock BuyBacks and
how much you know earnings liquidity
that's what we talked about today if you
want more information please let me know
I'll talk about it more watch the moves
of the other central banks too don't
just at the FED other central banks May
foreshadow what will happen where you
live if you found this video informative
hit that thumbs up button I want to see
you here tomorrow don't forget each and
every day I bring you the latest and
greatest take care